---
layout: post
title:  "Just Plain Busy"
date:   2015-05-05 19:54:20
categories: life
---
Over the past few weeks, or rather months, work has been keeping me super busy. One thing a lot of you developers or college students don't realize about getting into the real world is that software development is cyclical.
There are times when you are going to be so busy you hardly have time to get something to eat and go to bed and then there will be times when you are looking for ANYTHING to keep you entertained. Sometimes I wish I could go back in time to tell myself
what to expect. Not because it would influence my love of the craft, just to be more aware of what was to come.
<br><br>
I have recently been averaging about 75 hours a week for the past several months. One thing I have really come to notice is how it impacts my relationship with my wife. Being in IT for a few years before meeting my now wife I had an idea of
working weird hours to deploy projects or refresh machines, etc. but my wife was not familiar with it at all. Being a teacher she does work very long hours herself but she was not used to me having to work the weird hours I sometimes need to work to get a project done
on time. Relationships are so important and making sure that your significant other is aware of what your job entails can be EXTREMELY helpful to set a solid foundation of understanding an communication is key!
<br><br>
As a developer, you will also run into times when you have almost nothing to do. When I'm in the phase I tend to get a little stir crazy. Between checking emails and my RSS feed I find that I get really bored. I avoid this, during downtime
I often use my spare time to learn something new or try a simple small project. The last time I had some good free time at work I spent it looking for ways that we could improve our applications frameworks to try to make it easier
for my team to maintain. I have also taken the time to learn a little about a new programming language. I spend a few weeks learning about AngularJS a while back and found it really interesting!
<br><br>
If I could go back in time I would tell myself
1. Software development will sometimes be SUPER busy and other times SUPER slow.
<br>
2. Take your free time to learn something you didn't know before. (It doesn't even have to be about software development just learn something!)
<br>
3. Be upfront with your significant other because when you get busy they might feel like you are pushing them away.
<br>
4. Have side project! (They help to take your mind off of whatever you're doing at work.)
<br>
5. Go outside! (Sometimes a quick 15 minute walk is all I need to get back in the groove.)
<br>
6. Experience life. (Don't get let work or side project bog you down! When you're old and grey will you want to look back and regret that you didn't live your life to the fullest?)