---
layout: post
title:  "Hi! I'm New Here"
date:   2016-02-13 10:30:20
categories: career
---
Well it's been a while since my last post. Sometimes life just gets a little to crazy. Anyway, I wanted to focus this post on starting a new job. In our line of work the average developer spends something like 5 years at any given company.
Man how times have changed. Our parents probably worked most of their careers at a single company but today's generation hops from company to company depending on what they are interested in. It is wonderful that as a developer we can jump from company to company, domain to domain
learning interesting things along the way. I'm a little old fashioned and don't care much for jumping around too often but when I feel like I am not longer loving what I am working on, it's time to move on. 

As I entered the workforce out of college I thought to myself I would work at the first company that hired me for my whole career so I spent a lot of time looking for large companies that I thought may be around for a while. After I started
I found the work very interesting and loved learning the nuances of the company and the customers it served. After a while though I found that I dreaded going to work and it wasn't fun any more. I spent a few weeks looking around for other jobs just to "test the market"
and was lucky enough to find another job at another company who's products I was very interested in learning more about. As I worked at the new company I found that I didn't click with the people I was working with. I stuck it out and tried my best to
engage with my peers in several different ways but after 2 years I felt like I was no longer loving what I did. It was back to the job boards. After a few months of looking again I found the job I am at now which funny enough is with the first company I worked for out of college.
I love my team and all the men and women I work with. We all get along great and work is really enjoyable. I have never experienced this over the last 7 years I have been in IT and it is truly wonderful!

If I could go back and change how I moved jobs and companies to get to where I am not I would not change it at all. It is a luxury that we developers can transition from job to job, company to company but that doesn't mean you should jump around just to do it.
Be mindful of what your doing and try to lay out a career plan for yourself. If you want to work at Google one day there is no reason why you shouldn't try everyday to do so!

{% include disqus.html %}